Cardiff Carnival 25th Anniversary Project.
Interviewer Steve Fletcher.
Interviewee David Goff-Eveley.
The location is the Swicker office.
And today's date is the 9th of October 2015.
Goffy, as you're better known, could you do me a favour
and spell your name in full for the record, please?
Well, Goffy is G-O-F-F-E-E,
my other name, David Goff-Eveley, is D-A-V-I-D-G-O-F-F-E-V-E-L-E-I-G-H.
Thank you very much.
Goffy, as you're better known,
can you recall your first point of contact with Cardiff Carnival?
Well, I was a Blue Devil in 2005
for the Cardiff Carnival, which was great fun.
I remember colouring myself entirely in blue paint
and being very leery and with a shopping trolley
and it pour with rain and everything ran nicely.
Even the streets running with blue.
Blue blood, I think.
No, great images come to mind.
And then more recently, you've become involved again as a participant.
And I believe in 2013, you actually played somebody,
well, an iconic folkloric godlike figure
who's meant a lot to you in your work, the Green Man.
Tell us a bit more about the Green Man and your Carnival experiences in 2013.
Yes, I was a Green Man and, you know, a huge, great Green Man costume.
Yes, Green Man is dear to my heart because I've built
the biggest image of the Green Man in the world,
which is the Green Man maze at Penn Pond near Brecon.
And, yeah, so he's, yeah, and that was great.
Great. He's always hugely, huge fun doing anything with Swicker.
And I'm so sorry to hear that
they've they're they're being axed.
It's the truth.
Going back to when we first actually met,
not in the context of the Cardiff Carnival, but in 1992,
I became aware of this legendary figure out down on Hay on Wye,
who was organizing fantastic fire based events called, very wittily, Hay on Fire.
Tell us more about that event.
I do recall, from my perspective, with Samba Galaise, the Cardiff School Samba,
you beckoning me into a on the banks of the River Wye,
there on Hay, into a beautiful labyrinth, which we promptly entered
until the point at which the audience, I thought they were applauding
and they were shouting for more music.
What they're actually pointing out was that my trousers were on fire,
at which point we moved in the other direction and came out of the.
So it was a great and glorious meeting.
I have I have bought new trousers since that point.
Well, I think you've been you're shorter.
You walk around on stumps.
Yes. So Hay on Fire, I mean, yeah, where were you coming from?
Well, yeah, that's a huge party.
I was became the biggest fire festival in Wales.
And it was a huge, great community event.
And we had we had Samba Galaise,
Wicca dancers, all sort.
We had and masses of theatre and wicked giants and burning labyrinths.
And that year, I think we had
it was Arthur in Epic and we had King Arthur swinging on fiery trapeze,
he's diving through fiery hoops, walking on fiery tight ropes.
And yes, huge torchlight processions and
funeral barges coming down the river and even we had big shy horses
and all sorts of bands and a vast amount of fireworks and pyrotechnics.
Of course, Swicka and yourself and indeed your very wittily named company,
the Department of Enjoyment,
had worked for six or seven years on winter based events,
which was essentially a large scale
community participation project about making lanterns and parading them.
But of course, you and I got to play
with that fabulous building and its grounds, Cuffili Castle.
Can you tell me a bit about some about some of those memories?
And equally specifically about fire sculptures.
What are fire sculptures?
And they say they featured.
This is something you brought to our body of work and integrated into what we were doing.
Well, that's my speciality is doing giant fire sculptures
eight meters high and mainly iconic images like the green man and the Welsh dragon.
I did sort of fighting dragons and angels and Botticelli's Venus, all sorts of things,
which a lot of those are all commissioned by Swicker in the past.
And yeah, Cuffili Castle used to be a great gig.
And we yeah, I think the highlight of Cuffili Castle was
when I thought I'd have I do the legend of the wicked Duke of the Castle, whatever he was.
And so Gilbert de Clare, boo his and being we had we had
we had Norman Knight chasing dragons and that went from jumping off the tower and
what you call it?
I'm not paragliding.
Jet skis.
No, no, no.
Absailing.
Absailing down the towers and then we had jet skis.
We had jet ski dragons and and medieval knights shooting around the the the
the moat, which was fantastic, given that the whole thing was a national monument.
Yeah, I don't think they've ever seen anything like it in their life before or since before or since.
And it was great fun.
Yes. Well, certainly if I was handing out national cultural treasure awards, you know that I would have awarded one to you many years ago.
And, you know, it's been a total joy working with you out of doors on a vast number of projects.
We've mentioned some of them. We haven't even talked about Tempest on Fire, a circus theatre piece a couple of years ago in 2013, again at Penpoint Estate.
But as we bring this brief conversation to a close, of course, we recently spent time in the beautiful North Walyan folly, as it were, folly village of Port Marion as Swicker brought its carnival to festival number six.
How was that experience, particularly the carnival parade?
Well, the carnival, yes, it's a very colourful, beautiful setting, Port Marion.
And I discovered I could multitask because I turned into an octopus with eight arms and I could I could attack eight children at the same time, which is great.
A dream come true.
Absolutely.
Of course, as I say, all honour to your long and venerable history in terms of this.
I see you very much as the godfather of outdoor arts in Wales.
You're also one of our carnival heroes.
So, Goffy, many thanks indeed.
And, well, plenty more fun to be had.
Well, I hope so.
And, you know, I think working with Swicker has been a joy and I'm so I'm rarely upset that it's they haven't got the foresight to see how important community theatre is for the community and for Wales.
You know, it's a great tragedy.
Anyway, wish you all the best, Steve, and I'm sure you'll go and do great things.
Thanks, Goffo.